## VideoStreamInternship

This repository is the product of a submission for an internship. The dataset is not on the repository, only a single R file that generates the plots used for the analysis of the dataset.


## Generating the dataset

In order to generate the dataset

* Be sure to have data.table and ggplot2 installed
* Clone the repository or download the file analysis.R
* Copy the steamroot dataset in the same folder as the R file
* Open a R console and set the working directory to the location of the R file
* Source analysis.R

The computation time is about 3 minute on an intel i7@3GHz.

Once done, there should be a new folder "plots" at the same location as analysis.R


## Code and plots description

# plots 1 : dataset repartition

Generated by the R function "study.repartition", stored in the folder "dataset repartition".
Those plots will later help us understand some anomalies in the dataset.

# plots 2 : connectivity

Generated by the R function "study.connectivity" and stored in the folder "connectivity".
There are 6 plots in folder, trying to describe how the browser, the isp and the stream decide if the system is used or not.

The three first plots show the direct influence of the stream, the browser and the isp on the decision to use the library or not. The "connection.ratio" variable is defined by (#Vieuw using the technology / total #Views)

One can see two important points : 
* The stream #7 has a low use ratio
* The isp "Datch Telecom" has a very low use ratio

The three other plots discribe the crossed influence of the same three variables over the use ratio.
* On the plot representing the ratio function of isp and #stream, we see that isp other than "Datch Telecom" strem the 7th video as well as the other isp. Therefore, the low ratio of the 7th video is explained by something else. In fact, by looking at the plot "connectivity/connection_2_stream_isp.png", we learn that the 7th video is highly streamed using the isp "Datch Telecom".
* The "Datch Telecom" isp has a very low using rate, around 0.2 against an overwise mean abothe 0.9. The problem of the low use rate of the 7th video is therefore explained.
* Fro and Olga use it often (93% and 95%)

From now on, the dataset used is restricted to the rows that involve the technology.

# plots 3 : p2p ratio repartition per isp and browser

Generated by the R function "study.p2p.ratio.v0" and stored in the folders "p2p_ration/isp*".
Given a isp and a browser, these plots represent the box-plot of the p2p ratio for each video, and I added the size of the box-plot dataset in order to know if it is large enough for a statistical analysis.

These plots give a first view of the compatibility problems between some isp and browsers. For instance, the plot "Arange/Arange_Vertice.png" shows that these two hardly work together, whereas "Arange/Arange_Iron.png" works for videos 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 9, but don't for videos 3, 4, and 8.

The aim of these plots is to decide a partition of videos that have a common behaviour, in order to analyze them as a whole. After a plot analysis, I decided to restrain the study to 3 types of streams : 

* Type 1 : Streams 1, 2, 5, 6 and 7 ( ~ 200 Ko)
* Type 2 : Streams 5 and 7 ( ~ 100 Mo)
* Type 3 : Stream 3 ( ~ 200 Ko)

# plots 4 : p2p ratio repartition per stream

Generated by the R function "study.p2p.ratio.v1" and stored in the folders "p2p_ration/stream*".
These plots are the same box-plots as the ones produced by "study.p2p.ratio.v0", just rearanged on different pictures. I used them to confirm the choice of the 3 stream types.


# plots 5 : p2p ratio repartition per stream

Generated by the R function "study.p2p.ratio.v2" and stored in the folders "compatibility".
These plots try to present the efficience of each pair (isp, browser) for the 3 stream types. This efficience is caracterized by the p2p.ratio mean and the p2p.ration standard error. 


## Probelms summary and recomandations to improve the service

1. The isp "Datch Telecom" has a very low use rate around 0.2 against an otherwise mean abothe 0.9

2. For stream of type 1 :
    * The "Vectrice" browser has an almost null ratio mean, and "Swamp" presents a poor ratio mean compared to EarthWolf and Iron.
	* The isp "Olga" presents poor performances compared to the other isp.
	* The the browser "Swamp" presents a p2p ratio with a high standard deviation.
    * Solution : 
	
3. For stream of type 2 :
	* The isp "BTP" is the only isp that is efficient with this technology for streams of type 2, but hardly works with the browser "Vectrice".
	* With the isp "BTP", the p2p ratio is efficient and more stable with EarthWolf, Iron and Swamp, in this order.
	
4. For stream of type 3 :
	* The service doesn't seem to work well for stream of type 3 (Stream 3). The best mean is achieved by the pair isp, browser (Datch Telecam / Swamp), but the mean is done on a set of size 3, from which it is difficult to extract statistical information.
	
For each of this remarks, the solution I would recommand is to understand on a dev-level the differences of efficiency and to overcome them.
If it is possible to chose either the isp or the browser, it could be interesting to select the efficient triplets (stream type, isp, browser) for each stream.


## If I had more time

# Automatize the detection of stream type.

By using a distance metric between coulds of points, we can try to detect which sets ov streams behave the same way in the same context. By doing so, we can performa amore accurate data study.















